us defense secretary Lloyd Austin has
told Israel's defense minister the
safety of civilians in Rafa is a top
priority UAV Galan traveled to the
Pentagon for the in-person meeting on
Tuesday Israel says it's planning a
ground offensive in the Southernmost
city of the Gaza Strip where 1.5 million
displaced Palestinians have been forced
to seek shelter that's despite concerns
from the US and the International
Community ptical Hayne reports from the
Pentagon pretty strong language from the
US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin at
the beginning of the meeting now we know
the Israeli defense minister yev Gant
has come here with a long list of
weapons that he says Israel needs to get
from the United States including really
advanced fighter jets this is seen as
the most crit critical key piece of
Leverage that the US has if you want to
try and force Israel to change course so
what happened well we were able to speak
to a senior defense official on a
background call and reporters repeatedly
pressed were the weapons granted are
they on their way and he would only say
that the US strong believes Israel has a
right to defend itself and to defeat
Hamas that Israel says and the US
believes they are following
International laws of war and any
announcements would come in the future
but again it was fairly tough language
at the beginning of the meeting let's
listen to that protecting Palestinian
civilians from harm is both a moral
necessity and a strategic
imperative in Gaza today the number of
Civilian casualties is far too high and
the amount of humanitarian a Aid is far
too
low Gaza is suffering a humanitarian
catastrophe and the situation is getting
even worse the safety of the 1.5 million
Palestinian civilians in Rafa is also a
top priority for the United States the
senior defense official said he believes
more Aid is getting into Gaza although
he said it's still not nearly enough and
when it comes to Rafa we we're able to
press and say what does the US want to
see happen he said basically the US
wants to see uh 1.5 million Palestinians
there being able to move safely to
somewhere else as long as Israel can
provide for their basic needs uh and
then start the assault on Rafa the
problem is this vice president kamla
Harris she just said in an interview
that she's looked at the maps there's
literally nowhere for these 1.5 million
people to go so obviously still a big
debate behind the scenes but the
pentagon's choosing not to let it go
public Patty Cain Al Zer at the Pentagon